---
name: dps-walk
description: Denops walk
---

=pod

=head1 dps-walk

Denops walk files.

=head1 Features X<walk-features>

dps-walk is a Vim plugin that walks files.

=head1 Installation X<walk-installation>

If you use L<folke/lazy.nvim|https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim>.

=begin lua

{
  "yukimemi/dps-walk",
  lazy = false,
  dependencies = {
    "vim-denops/denops.vim",
  },
}

=end lua

If you use L<yukimemi/dvpm|https://github.com/yukimemi/dvpm>.

=begin typescript

dvpm.add({ url: "yukimemi/dps-walk" });

=end typescript

=head1 Requirements X<walk-requirements>

=item [Deno - A modern runtime for JavaScript and TypeScript](https://deno.land/)

=item [vim-denops/denops.vim: 🐜 An ecosystem of Vim/Neovim which allows developers to write cross-platform plugins in Deno](https://github.com/vim-denops/denops.vim)

=head1 Usage X<walk-usage>

No special settings are required.
`:DenopsWalk` and `:DenopsWalkBufferDir` command are available.

=head1 Commands X<walk-commands>

C<:DenopsWalk [--path=path]>                                      X<:DenopsWalk>
Walk files and display buffer.
You can filter files by typing.
If --path is not specified, current directory is used.

C<:DenopsWalkBufferDir>                                  X<:DenopsWalkBufferDir>
Same as `:DenopsWalk --path="%:p:h"`.

=head1 Config X<walk-config>

No settings are required. However, the following settings can be made if necessary.

C<g:walk_debug>                                                  X<g:walk_debug>
Enable debug messages.
default is v:false

C<g:walk_height>                                                X<g:walk_height>
Height of walk buffer.
default is 15

C<g:walk_chunk>                                                  X<g:walk_chunk>
Chunk size of walk buffer.
default is 500

C<g:walk_ignore>                                                X<g:walk_ignore>
Ignore patterns.
default is ["\\.git", "\\.svn", "\\.hg", "\\.o$", "\\.obj$", "\\.a$", "\\.exe~?$", "tags$"]

C<g:walk_no_mapping>                                        X<g:walk_no_mapping>
Whether to disable default mappings.
default is v:false

=head1 Mappings X<walk-mappings>

On filter buffer (`dpswalk-filter`), you can use the following mappings.

C<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-cursor-down)>                    X<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-cursor-down)>
Cursor move next line. (Default is <C-j>)

C<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-cursor-up)>                        X<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-cursor-up)>
Cursor move previous line. (Default is <C-k>)

C<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-escape)>                              X<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-escape)>
Escape filter buffer and go to walk buffer. (Default is <ESC>)

C<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-enter)>                                X<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-enter)>
Open cursor selected line. (Default is <CR>)

C<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-quit)>                                  X<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-quit)>
Quit walk and filter buffer. (Default is <ESC>)

C<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-insert)>                              X<E<lt>PlugE<gt>(dps-walk-insert)>
Go to filter buffer. (Default is i and a)

=head1 Example X<walk-example>

=begin vim

nnoremap <space>wa <cmd>DenopsWalk<cr>
nnoremap <space>ws <cmd>DenopsWalk --path=~/src<cr>
nnoremap <space>wD <cmd>DenopsWalk --path=~/.dotfiles<cr>
nnoremap <space>wc <cmd>DenopsWalk --path=~/.cache<cr>
nnoremap <space>wm <cmd>DenopsWalk --path=~/.memolist<cr>
nnoremap <space>wd <cmd>DenopsWalkBufferDir<cr>

=end vim

=head1 License X<walk-license>

Licensed under MIT License.

Copyright (c) 2023 yukimemi

=cut
